.ig
Copyright (C) 2022 Charles Michael Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH hotplug_bu 8 "10 Feb 2023" "Auroville" "Version 3.5.0"
.SH NAME
hotplug_bu \- backup to a hotplug device for bung
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fbhotplug_bu \fB-c\~\fIconf \fR[\fB-C\fR] \fR[\fB-d\fR] \fR[\fB-h\fR] \fR[\fB-l\~\fIlog\fR] \fR[\fB-o\~\fIorg\fR] \fR[\fB-p\fR] \fR[\fB-s\fR] \fR[\fB-v\fR] \fR[\fB-w\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
hotplug_bu runs configurable commands.
Normally it is configured to run bung scripts to backup to a hotplug device.
It is normally run by hotplug_bu_launcher or by super_bu.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
Common options
.RS
.nh
The options not listed below are described in bung-common(5).
.RE
.
.TP
-u
.RS
.nh
Sets udev mode.
In conjunction with the configuration file,
controls the message class when the hotplug device is not available.
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
-
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Michael Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5\~and\~8),
\fBcheck_hotplug_usage\fR(5\~and\~8),
\fBhotplug_bu\fR(5),
\fBsuper_bu\fR(5\~and\~8),
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung
