.ig
Copyright (C) 2021 Charles Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH hotplug_bu_launcher 8 "3 Aug 2022" "Auroville" "Version 3.2.6"
.SH NAME
hotplug_bu_launcher \- launch bung's hotplug_bu
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fbhotplug_bu_launcher \fIcommand \fR[\fIarg ...\fR] \fB-c\~\fIconf \fR[\fB-d\fR] \fR[\fB-h\fR] \fR[\fB-l\~\fIlog\fR] \fR[\fB-o\~\fIorg\fR] \fR[\fBu\fR] \fR[\fB-p\fR] \fR[\fB-v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
hotplug_bu_launcher runs the given command with optional arguments in the background.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
Common options
.RS
.nh
The options not listed below are described in bung-common(5).
.RE
.
.TP
-u
.RS
.nh
Sets udev mode.  In conjunction with the configuration file, this controls
the message class when a hotplug device is not available, as described in 
hotplug_bu(5).
.RE
.
.TP
Usage note
.RS
.nh
hotplug_bu_launcher is normally run by udev via a custom rule
created when configuring the system to use the hotplug device for bung.
In this case, the command and optional arguments are always
.br
\fB/usr/bin/hotplug_bu -c \fIconf \fB-u\fR
.br
and the same configuration file is used for hotplug_bu_launcher and hotplug_bu.
.br
More information in the bung user guide.
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
-
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5\~and\~8),
\fBhotplug_bu\fR(5 and 8),
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc
