.ig
Copyright (C) 2022 Charles Michael Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na\" No adjusting text
.nh\" No hyphenation
.TH templated_bu 8 "10 Feb 2023" "Auroville" "Version 3.5.0"
.SH "NAME"
remote_agent \- remote backup directory agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fbremote_agent
\fB-b\~\fIretention 
\fB-c\~\fIconf 
\fR[\fB-d\fR] 
\fR[\fB-D\fR] 
\fR[\fB-h\fR] 
\fR[\fB-l\~\fIlog_file\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh\" No hyphenation
remote_agent acts on the directory named in its conffile.
The conffile must have a single line containing the directory path.
.br
When called with
\fB-D\fR
remote_agent reports directory existence.
.br
When called with
\fB-b\fR
remote_agent removes files and subdirectories older than \fIretention\fR
days from the directory
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
Common options
.RS
.nh
The options not listed below are described in bung-common(5).
.RE
.
.TP
-b
.RS
.nh
Backup retention mode.  
Removes files and subdirectories older than \fIretention\fR
days from the directory
.RE
.
.TP
-D
.RS
.nh
Directory existence report mode.
Reports either
"Exists"
or
"Does not exist, is not a directory or is unreachable"
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
-
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Michael Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcommon\fR(5\~and\~8),
\fBrsync_bu\fR(5\~and\~8),
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung
