.ig
Copyright (C) 2021 Charles Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na\" No adjusting text
.nh\" No hyphenation
.TH rsync_bu 8 "3 Aug 2022" "Auroville" "Version 3.2.6"
.SH "NAME"
rsync_bu \- backup files using bung's rsync wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fbrsync_bu
\fR[\fB-C\fR]
\fB-c\~\fIconf_file
\fR[\fB-d\fR]
\fR[\fB-h\fR]
\fR[\fB-L\~\fIlog_dir\fR]
\fR[\fB-l\~\fIlog_file\fR]
\fR[\fB-o\~\fIorganisation\fR]
\fR[\fB-p\~\fIpath\fR]
\fR[\fB-r\fR]
\fR[\fB-s\fR]
\fR[\fB-t\~\fItmp_dir\fR]
\fR[\fB-v\fR]
\fR[\fB-w\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
rsync_bu runs rsync.
By default it retains changed and deleted files under a subdirectory of the destination directory called "_Changed and deleted files/<year>/<month>/<day>@<hour:minute>".
By default it removes changed and deleted files 28 days after they were retained.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
Common options
.RS
.nh
The options not listed below are described in bung-common(5).
.RE
.
.TP
-r
.RS
.nh
Runs rsync with the --dry-run option.
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
-
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5\~and\~8),
\fBhotplug_bu\fR(5\~and\~8),
\fBrsync_bu\fR(5),
\fBrsync_restore\fR(8),
\fBsuper_bu\fR(5\~and\~8),
\fBvalidate_ssh_cmd\fR(8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc
