.ig
Copyright (C) 2022 Charles Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH bung-common 5 "29 Mar 2022" "Auroville" "Version 3.2.3"
.SH NAME
bung \- common configuration for most bung scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkeyword\~=\~\fR[\fBkey_value\fR\~...] [\fBsub_keyword\fR=\fIsub_key_value\fR\~...]
or
.br
\fBkeyword\~=\~[\fBsub_keyword\fR=\fIsub_key_value\fR\~...] \fR[\fBkey_value\fR\~...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page describes the bung scripts' configuration file format
and common keywords
accepted by most of the scripts.
Each script's specific keywords and a list of which
keywords it accepts are described in its man 5 page.
.SH OPTIONS (file format)
.IP * 4
.nh
Lines beginning with #, empty lines and lines containing only spaces and tabs are ignored.
.nh
.IP * 4
Line syntax is:
.RS
.HP
.nh
\fBkeyword\~=\~\fR[\fBkey_value\fR\~...] [\fBsub_keyword\fR=\fIsub_key_value\fR\~...]
.br
or
.br
\fBkeyword\~=\~[\fBsub_keyword\fR=\fIsub_key_value\fR\~...] \fR[\fBkey_value\fR\~...]
.RE
.IP * 4
Key values are position dependent; sub-keywords may be given in any order.
.IP * 4
When sub_keywords are repeated, the last one's sub_key_value is effective.
.IP * 4
.nh
Key and sub-key values may be enclosed in double quotes.
In case they contain spaces or tabs they must be enclosed in double quotes.
Double quote characters within values must be backslash escaped.
For example:
.RS
.HP
.nh
Organisation = "Al \\"Scarface\\" Capone"
.RE
.IP * 4
.nh
Outside key and sub-key values:
.IP "" 4
* Any number of spaces and tabs can be used around "=" characters.
.IP "" 4
* One or more spaces or tabs are required between key values, sub-keywords
and sub-keyword values.
.IP "" 4
For example, these are equivalent:
.RS
.HP
User name = sampan type=good class=best
.HP
User name=sampan    type = good    class = best
.RE
.IP * 4
Keywords are case-insensitive and internal spaces and tabs are ignored.
.IP "" 4
For example, these are equivalent:
UserName, User name, username
.SH OPTIONS (common keywords)
Keywords may be given in any order.
Except where noted ("May be used multiple times"),
keywords may only be used once in each configuration file.
Here are the common keywords in alphabetical order.
.
.TP
Email for report
.RS
.nh
\fBEmail for report = \fIemail_address
\fR[\fBmsg_level = \fI level\fR]
\fR[\fBno_log\fR]
.P
Optional; default root with msg_level I (information) and include the log.
.br
May appear several times
.br
Ignored when running in subsidiary mode.
.P
\fBemail_address\fR is, er, an email address
.P
\fBmsg_level\fR sets the minimum message level at which an email should be sent.
.br
\fBI\fR for information (default).  Always send the report email.
.br
\fBW\fR for warning.
Send the report email only when there is one or more
warning or error messages.
.br
\fBE\fR for error.
Send the report email only when there is one or more
error messages.
.P
\fBno_log\fR tells bung not to include the log in the report email.
.RE
.
.TP
Log retention
.RS
.nh
\fBLog retention = \fIdays
.P
Optional; default 28 days log retention
.RE
.
.TP
Max memory size
.RS
.nh
\fBMax memory size = unlimited|\fIsize
.P
Optional; default no change to existing max memory size limit
.P
\fIsize\fR must be an unsigned integer.
It is in units of 1 kibibyte (1024 bytes) as documented on the \fBbash\fR(1) man page in the ulimit section.
.RE
.
.TP
Mount
.RS
.nh
\fBMount = fs_spec fs_file
\fR[\fBignore_already_mounted\fR]
\fR[\fBignore_files_under_fs_file\fR]
\fR[\fBno_fsck\fR]
\fR[\fBoptions=\fIoptions\fR]
.P
Optional; no default; may appear several times
.P
\fBfs_spec\fR is as described in the fstab man page.  It is widely known as the
device or special file
.P
\fBfs_file\fR is as described in the fstab man page.  It is widely known as the
mountpoint
.P
\fBignore_already_mounted\fR tells bung not to generate a warning
when fs_spec is already mounted.
Useful when a file system in an rsync "whole tree" source tree is not a snapshot, for example when mounting /boot on /mnt/snap-root/boot
.P
\fBignore_files_under_fs_file\fR tells bung not to generate a warning
when there are files under the fs_file mountpoint
.P
\fBno_fsck\fR tells bung not to fsck the file system.
.br
On ext2/3/4 file systems, bung normally runs fsck
when the state is not clean,
when the mount count is high
or when the time since last fsck is long
.br
On JFS file systems, bung normally runs fsck unconditionally
.P
\fBoptions\fR is as described in the mount man page
.P
Examples
.br
\~\~\~\~Mount = LABEL=backup /mnt/backup
.br
\~\~\~\~Mount = /dev/foo-usb-hdd /mnt/offsite-foo
.br
\~\~\~\~Mount = //192.168.1.1/foo /mnt/foo
options=credentials=/etc/bung/foo.credentials
.br
\~\~\~\~Mount = UUID=548ecadb-8507-4c0b-9f03-84e25238d7f1 /mnt/backup
.br
\~\~\~\~Mount = /dev/sda6 /mnt/backup
.br
\~\~\~\~Mount = bar:/home /mnt/bar/home
.RE
.
.TP
Number of open files
.RS
.nh
\fBNumber of open files = unlimited|\fIsize
.P
Optional; default no change to existing maximum number of open file descriptors limit
.P
\fIsize\fR must be an unsigned integer.
It is in units of 1 kibibyte (1024 bytes) as documented on the \fBbash\fR(1) man page in the ulimit section.
.RE
.
.TP
Organisation name
.RS
.nh
\fBOrganisation name = \fIorganisation_name\fR
.P
Required when not in subsidiary mode and not given by command line option -o
.P
Overridden by command line option -o
.P
May not contain a "/"
.P
Note: the organisation name appears in report emails' subjects so you may like
to make it short and meaningful
.RE
.
.TP
Post-hook
.RS
.nh
\fBPost-hook =
\fR[\fBtimeout=\fIduration\fR]
\fR[\fBtimeout_msgclass=\fImsgclass\fR]
\fR[\fBrun=\fIcondition\fR]
\fIcommand\fR
.P
Optional; no default; may appear several times
.P
\fBtimeout\fR specifies the maximum time allowed for the command to return
before exiting with an error.
.br
\fIduration\fR is a floating point number with an optional suffix:
.br
\fBs\fR for seconds (default)
.br
\fBm\fR for minutes
.br
\fBh\fR for hours
.br
\fBd\fR for days
.br
Default: 10 (allow the post-hook command 10 seconds to run)
.P
\fBtimeout_msgclass\fR specifies the class of the message to be generated
when the command times out.
.br
\fImsgclass\fR must be I, W or E for information, warning or error.
.br
Default: E (generate an error message)
.P
\fBrun\fR specifies under which conditions the post-hook should be run.
.br
\fIcondition\fR must be one of:
.br
always: run the post-hook except when bung was interrupted.
.br
normal: run the post-hook except when bung was interrupted
and when bung is finalising on error.
.br
Default: normal
.P
Any stdout and stderr from the pre-hook command is written to the bung log
.P
If the return code from the pre-hook command is:
.br
0: bung generates an information message
.br
1: bung generates a warning message
.br
2: bung generates an error message
.P
Examples
.br
Example hook scripts are normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc/examples/hook scripts/
.RE
.
.TP
Pre-hook
.RS
.nh
\fBPre-hook =
\fR[\fBtimeout=\fIduration\fR]
\fR[\fBtimeout_msgclass=\fImsgclass\fR]
\fIcommand\fR
.P
Optional; no default; may appear several times
.P
\fBtimeout\fR specifies the maximum time allowed for the command to return
before exiting with an error.
\fIduration\fR is a floating point number with an optional suffix:
.br
\fBs\fR for seconds (default)
.br
\fBm\fR for minutes
.br
\fBh\fR for hours
.br
\fBd\fR for days
.br
Default: 10 (allow the pre-hook command 10 seconds to run)
.P
\fBtimeout_msgclass\fR specifies the class of the message to be generated
when the command times out.
.br
\fImsgclass\fR must be I, W or E for information, warning or error.
.br
Default: E (generate an error message and finalise)
.P
Any stdout and stderr from the pre-hook command is written to the bung log
.P
If the return code from the pre-hook command is:
.br
0: bung generates an information message and continues
.br
1: bung generates an information message and finalises
.br
2: bung generates a warning message and continues
.br
3: bung generates a warning message and finalises
.br
4: bung generates an error message (implies does not continue)
.P
Examples
.br
Example hook scripts are normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc/examples/hook scripts/
.RE
.
.TP
Shutdown
.RS
.nh
\fBShutdown = Yes\fR|\fBNo
.P
Optional; default No
.P
When Shutdown is Yes, shutdown -h +5 is run as the script terminates
.RE
.
.TP
Snapshot
.RS
.nh
\fBSnapshot = \fIoriginal_volume_name snapshot_volume_name fs_file
\fR[\fBignore_files_under_fs_file\fR]
\fR[\fBsize\fR=\fIsize\fR]
.P
Optional; no default; may appear several times
.P
\fBoriginal_volume_name\fR is as described in the lvcreate man page under
--snapshot except, if there is a single volume group, the volume group path may
be omitted, for example /dev/vg00/root maybe be given as root
.P
\fBsnapshot_volume_name\fR is the lvcreate man page's VolumeGroup{Name|Path}
except, if there is a single volume group, the volume group path may be omitted,
for example /dev/vg00/snap-root maybe be given as snap-root
.P
\fBignore_files_under_fs_file\fR tells bung not to generate a warning when
there are files under the fs_file mountpoint
.P
\fBsize\fR is the snapshot volume size as described in the lvcreate man page
under --size except commas may be used as thousands separators.
.br
\~\~\~\~Default; same size as the original volume.
.P
Examples
.br
\~\~\~\~Snapshot = /dev/vg0/var /dev/vg0/snap-var /mnt/snap-var size=2G
.br
\~\~\~\~Snapshot = var snap-var /mnt/snap-var
.RE
.
.TP
Subsidiary script
.RS
.nh
\fBSubsidiary script = \fIscript_name config_name
\fR[\fBdebug\fR]
\fR[\fBionice\fR=\fIionice\fR]
\fR[\fBnice\fR=\fInice\fR]
\fR[\fBschedule\fR=\fItime_regex\fR]
.P
Required for super_bu and hotplug_bu.  Otherwise invalid.
.br
May be used multiple times.
.P
\fBscript_name\fR is the name of the script to run
.P
\fBconfig_name\fR is the configuration file for the script.
.br
If it does not contain a "/",
it is relative to the bung configuration directory,
normally /etc/bung.
.br
For a config file in the current working directory, use ./
.P
\fBdebug\fR enables debug in the script.
.P
\fBionice\fR runs the script with the given ionice value.
The value is limited to ionice's -c and -n options as described on the ionice man page.
ionice is only effective with the CFQ I/O scheduler.
.P
\fBnice\fR runs the script with the given nice value
as described on the nice man page.
.P
\fBschedule\fR
The subsidiary script is not run
unless time_regex matches the current local time as YYYY/MM/DD/d/HH/SS.
.br
d is the day of the week from 1 (Mon) to 7 (Sun)
.br
More on MM/DD/d/HH/ in the smartd.conf man page under -s
.br
For example, to match Fridays: schedule=.*/.*/.*/5/.*/.*/.*
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
BUNG_BIN_DIR sets the default bung library directory.  Intended for developers' use.  Default /usr/bin.
.br
BUNG_COMPGEN_DIR.  If not unset or empty, writes global variables at start and end of run to
$BUNG_COMPGEN_DIR/initial.vars and final.vars.  Intended for developers' use.
.br
BUNG_ETC_DIR sets the default configuration file directory.
Default /etc/bung for root or ~/etc/bung for others.
.br
BUNG_LIB_DIR sets the default bung library directory.  Intended for developers' use. Default /usr/lib/bung.
.br
BUNG_LOG_DIR sets the default bung log directory.
Default /var/log/bung for root or ~/var/log/bung for others.
.br
BUNG_TMP_DIR sets the default temporary directory root, also used for the PID file.
Default /run/bung for root or ~/var/run/bung for others.
.br
.SH FILES
Default directories are listed in the ENVIRONMENT section.
.SH EXAMPLES
In addition to the examples given above, example bung configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc/examples
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcheck_hotplug_usage\fR(5 and 8),
\fBbung-common\fR(8),
\fBhotplug_bu\fR(5 and 8),
\fBhotplug_bu_launcher\fR(5 and 8),
\fBmysql_bu\fR(5 and 8),
\fBopenldap_bu\fR(5 and 8),
\fBpostgres_bu\fR(5 and 8),
\fBrsync_bu\fR(5 and 8),
\fBsuper_bu\fR(5 and 8)
\fBsysinfo_bu\fR(5 and 8)
\fBtemplated_bu\fR(5 and 8)
\fBtemplate_file\fR(5)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc
