.ig
Copyright (C) 2021 Charles Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH hotplug_bu 5 "3 Aug 2022" "Auroville" "Version 3.2.6"
.SH NAME
hotplug_bu \- configuration for bung's hotplug_bu script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBEmail for report\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBHotplug device\~=\~device_path \fR[\fBmissing_device_message_class=information|warning|error\fR] \fR[\fBnotification_email=\fIemail_address\fR] \fR[\fBemail_wait=\fIseconds\fR] \fR[\fBnotification_screen\fR]
.HP
\fBLog retention\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBMount\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBOrganisation name\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPre-hook\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPost-hook\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBSnapshot\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBShutdown\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBSubsidiary script\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the keywords specific to hotplug_bu
.P
The \fBbung-common\fR (5) man page describes
the configuration file format
and the common keywords ellipsised in the \fBSYNOPSIS\fR above
.SH OPTIONS (keywords)
.TP
Hotplug device
.RS
.HP
.nh
\fBHotplug device\~=\~device_path \fR[\fBmissing_device_message_class=information|warning|error\fR] \fR[\fBnotification_email=\fIemail_address\fR] \fR[\fBemail_wait=\fIseconds\fR] \fR[\fBnotification_screen\fR]
.P
Required
.P
\fBdevice_path\fR is the path for the hotplug device.
.br
Normally it is a symlink created by a udev rule created when configuring
the device for bung.
More information in the bung user guide.
.P
\fBmissing_device_message_class\fR sets the message class to be used when the
hotplug device is not present.
.br
The value is ignored when hotplug_bu is called by udev
(via hotplug_bu_launcher) in which case a missing hotplug device always
generates an error message.
.br
\~\~\~\~Default: warning
.P
\fBnotification_email\fR is the email address to send notifications to.
.br
Notifications are explained below.
.br
This sub-keyword is intended for use when the hotplug device is plugged
into a computer without a visual display screen or with nobody normally
watching it.
.P
\fBemail_wait\fR is how long to wait after sending a notification email before
using the hotplug device.
.br
Intended to allow time for the email to be received and read.
.br
\~\~\~\~Default: 0 when notification_screen is confiigured, otherwise 600.
.P
\fBnotification_screen\fR enables notifications on the local visual display screen.
.br
Notifications are explained below.
.br
Intended for use when the hotplug device is plugged into a computer with a
visual display screen with a user normally watching it.
.br
\~\~\~\~Default: no notifications on screen.
.P
\fBNote on notifications\fR
.br
The initial notification advises that the hotplug device is in use and should
not be unplugged.
.br
The final notification either advises that the hotplug device is no longer in
use and can be unplugged or that it should not be unplugged because
one or more a file systems on it are mounted.
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
Example hotplug_bu configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc/examples
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5 and 8),
\fBhotplug_bu\fR(8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc
