.ig
Copyright (C) 2023 Charles Michael Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH mysql_bu 5 "30 Apr 2023" "Auroville" "Version 3.5.2"
.SH NAME
mysql_bu \- configuration for bung's mysqldump wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBEmail for report\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBLog retention\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBMount\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBMySQL\~= 
\fR[\fBcompression=\fR[\fIprogram\fR]] 
\fR[\fBdefaults_file=\fIfile\fR] 
.br
\fR[\fBdest_dir=\fIdir\fR] 
\fR[\fBdest_dir_usage_warning=\fI%\fR] 
\fR[\fBdest_dir_windows\fR] 
.br
\fR[\fBexclude=\fIdb1\fR,\fIdb2\fR\~...]
.br
\fR[\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]]|\fB0\fR[\fBdays\fR]]|\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]|\fInumber\fBold_backups] 
.br
\fR[\fBtimestamp_format=\fIformat\fR] 
.HP
\fBOrganisation name\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPre-hook\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPost-hook\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBShutdown\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the keywords specific to mysql_bu
.P
The \fBbung-common\fR (5) man page describes
the configuration file format
and the common keywords ellipsised in the \fBSYNOPSIS\fR above
.SH OPTIONS (sub-keywords)
.P
\fBcompression\fR names the program to be used for compressing mysqldump output
.br
The program must be usable in a pipeline.
.br
Default: gzip.
.P
The output filename extension will be:
.IP \(bu 4
When the program name includes 7z: .7z
.IP \(bu 4
When the program name includes bzip: .bz2
.IP \(bu 4
When the program is gzip: .gz
.IP \(bu 4
Otherwise no extension
.P
\fBdefaults_file\fR 
is the MySQL defaults file to use.
.br
If it does not begin with /,
it is relative to the bung configuration directory,
/etc/bung for root, ~/etc/bung for others
.br
Default: mysql.cnf
.P
\fBdest_dir\fR is the directory to write the mysqldump files to.
.br
Each database's mysqldump is written in a subdirectory with database's name.
.br
Default: /var/backup/mysql for root, ~/var/backup/mysql for others
.P
\fBdest_dir_usage_warning\fR is the % file system usage that will trigger a warning
after the backup is finished.
.br
Use dest_dir_usage_warning=0 to disable.
.br
Default: 80
.P
\fBdest_dir_windows\fR ensures the mysqldump file names are suitable for a
Windows-FAT or NTFS file system.
.br
Default: assume a sane file system.
.P
\fBexclude\fR lists databases to exclude from the backup.
.br
Default: do not exclude any databases except
information_schema, performance_schema and sys
which are never backed up
.P
\fBretention=\fI...\fR
.br
Specifies old backup files retention.
.P
Default: 28 day retention.
.br
.RS
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]
.br
Specifies the number of days that these files are kept.
.P
\fBretention=0\fR[\fBdays\fR]
.br
Specifies no removal of old backup files.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]
.RS
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR
.br
Specifies repeatedly removing the oldest backup file until the file system usage is \fInumber\fR percent or less.
.P
When more than one backup is written to the same file system,
this can result in all the old backup files
being removed before the specified % file system usage is achieved
because of space used by another backup.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR
.br
Works like \fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR except the most recent
\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR for all databases are not removed.
.RE
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fBold_backups\fR 
.br
Specifies removing all but the most recent \fInumber\fR old backup files for all databases.
.RE
.P
\fBtimestamp_format\fR timestamp_format is the date command format used to
generate timestamps for use in backup file names
.br
Default: %Y-%m-%d@%H:%M:%S
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
Example mysql_bu configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung/examples
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Michael Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5 and 8),
\fBmysql_bu\fR(8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung
