.ig
Copyright (C) 2021 Charles Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH openldap_bu 5 "13 Apr 2022" "Auroville" "Version 3.2.5"
.SH NAME
ldap_bu \- configuration for bung's OpenLDAP backup script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBEmail for report\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBLog retention\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBMount\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBOpenLDAP\~= \fR[\fBdest_dir=\fIdir\fR] \fR[\fBdest_dir_usage_warning=\fI%\fR] \fR[\fBretention=\fIdays\fR]
.HP
\fBOrganisation name\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPre-hook\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPost-hook\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBShutdown\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBSnapshot\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the keywords specific to ldap_bu
.P
The \fBbung-common\fR (5) man page describes
the configuration file format
and the common keywords ellipsised in the \fBSYNOPSIS\fR above
.SH OPTIONS (keywords)
.TP
OpenLDAP
.RS
.HP
.nh
\fBOpenLDAP\~= \fR[\fBdest_dir=\fIdir\fR] \fR[\fBdest_dir_usage_warning=\fI%\fR] \fR[\fBretention=\fIdays\fR]
.P
Required
.P
\fBdest_dir\fR is the directory to write the backup files to.
.br
Default: /var/backup/openldap
.P
\fBdest_dir_usage_warning\fR is the % destination file system usage that will trigger a warning
after the backup is finished.
.br
Use dest_dir_usage_warning=0 to disable.
.br
Default: 80
.P
\fBretention\fR specifies the number of days that OpenLDAP backup files are kept.
.br
Default: 28
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
Example ldap_bu configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc/examples
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5 and 8),
\fBldap_bu\fR(8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc
