.ig
Copyright (C) 2023 Charles Michael Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na\" No adjusting text
.nh\" No hyphenation
.TH postgres_bu 5 "30 Apr 2023" "Auroville" "Version 3.5.2"
.SH NAME
postgres_bu \- configuration for bung's pg_dump and pg_dumpall wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBEmail for report\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBLog retention\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBMount\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBOrganisation name\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBPostgreSQL\~= 
\fR[\fBdest_dir=\fIdir\fR] 
\fR[\fBdest_dir_usage_warning=\fI%\fR] 
\fR[\fBexclude=\fIdb1\fR,\fIdb2\fR\~...] 
\fR[\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]]|\fB0\fR[\fBdays\fR]]|\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]|\fInumber\fBold_backups] 
\fR[\fBtimestamp_format=\fIformat\fR]
.HP
\fBPre-hook\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPost-hook\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBShutdown\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the keywords specific to postgres_bu
.P
The \fBbung-common\fR (5) man page describes
the configuration file format
and the common keywords ellipsised in the \fBSYNOPSIS\fR above
.SH OPTIONS (sub-keywords)
.P
\fBdest_dir\fR is the directory to write the pg_dump and pg_dumpall files to.
.br
The pg_dumpall --globals-only output is written in the directory.
Each database's pg_dump output is written in a subdirectory with database's name.
.br
Default: /var/backup/postgres
.P
\fBdest_dir_usage_warning\fR is the % file system usage that will trigger a warning
after the backup is finished.
.br
Use dest_dir_usage_warning=0 to disable.
.br
Default: 80
.P
\fBexclude\fR lists databases to exclude from the backup.
.br
Default: backup all databases except template0 and template1
.P
\fBretention=\fI...\fR
.br
Specifies old backup files retention.
.P
Default: 28 day retention.
.br
.RS
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]
.br
Specifies the number of days that these files are kept.
.P
\fBretention=0\fR[\fBdays\fR]
.br
Specifies no removal of old backup files.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]
.RS
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR
.br
Specifies repeatedly removing the oldest backup file until the file system usage is \fInumber\fR percent or less.
.P
When more than one backup is written to the same file system,
this can result in all the old backup files
being removed before the specified % file system usage is achieved
because of space used by another backup.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR
.br
Works like \fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR except the most recent
\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR for all databases are not removed.
.RE
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fBold_backups\fR 
.br
Specifies removing all but the most recent \fInumber\fR old backup files for all databases.
.RE
.P
\fBtimestamp_format\fR timestamp_format is the date command format used to
generate timestamps for use in backup file names
.br
Default: %Y-%m-%d@%H:%M:%S
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
Example postgres_bu configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung/examples
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Michael Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5 and 8),
\fBpostgres_bu\fR(8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung
