.ig
Copyright (C) 2023 Charles Michael Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH rsync 5 "30 Apr 2023" "Auroville" "Version 3.5.2"
.SH NAME
rsync_bu \- configuration for bung's rsync wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBEmail for report\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBLog retention\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBMount\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBOrganisation name\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPre-hook\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPost-hook\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBrsync\~= \fISRC\fR \fIDEST\fR [\fBbackup_dir=\fIDIR\fR] \fR[\fB--bwlimit=\fIlimit\fR] \fR[\fBdest_dir_usage_warning=\fI%\fR] 
.br
\fR[\fBdest_dir_windows\fR] \fR[\fB--exclude-from=\fIFILE\fR] \fR[\fBnocompression\fR] \fR[\fBno-numeric-ids\fR] \fR[\fBremote_host_timeout=\fIminutes,minutes\fR] 
.br
\fR[\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]]|\fR[\fBretention=\fB0\fR[\fBdays\fR][,\fBnowarn\fR]]|\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]|\fInumber\fBold_backups] 
.br
\fR[\fBretry=\fIcount\fR] [\fB--timeout=\fISECONDS\fR] [\fBverbose=\fIlevel\fR] 
.HP
or
.HP
\fBrsync\~= SRC DEST \fR[\fBoptions=\fIoptions\fR] [\fBdest_dir_usage_warning=\fI%\fR] \fR[\fBretry=\fIcount\fR]
.HP
\fBShutdown\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBSnapshot\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
.nh
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the keywords specific to rsync_bu.
.P
The \fBbung-common\fR (5) man page describes
the configuration file format
and the common keywords ellipsised in the \fBSYNOPSIS\fR above.
.SH OPTIONS (key values and sub-keywords)
.P
.nh
.P
\fISRC\fR is the source directory as described on the rsync man page.
.P
When \fISRC\fR begins with [USER@]HOST:,
HOST is resolved according to ssh procedure
which usually means it is an entry in ~/.ssh/config
which normally also names the private key to use.
The corresponding public key must be in the remote host's
user's ~/.ssh/authorized_keys or authorized_keys2 file.
.P
The local ~/.ssh/known_hosts must have an entry for the remote host.
If it does not, ssh will prompt interactively which will hang rsync_bu.
When setting up such a job,
use the paswordless logon interactively once
to add the remote host to the local ~/.ssh/known_hosts.
.P
\fIDEST\fR is the destination directory as described on the rsync man page.
.P
When \fIDEST\fR begins with [USER@]HOST:,
the ssh notes for \fISRC\fR above apply.
.P
rsync_bu does not support both \fISRC\fR and \fIDEST\fR on ssh hosts.
.P
\fBbackup_dir\fR
is used to override bung's default "_Changed and deleted files" backup
directory.  Apart from personal preference, this is useful when the
source directory has a "_Changed and deleted files"
sub-directory, as when backing up a backup.
.br
Further information on the rsync man page in the --backup-dir section.
.br
Default: "_Changed and deleted files"
.P
\fB--bwlimit\fR
sets rsync's --bwlimit option.
.br
Further information on the rsync man page in the --bwlimit section.
.P
\fBdest_dir_usage_warning\fR is the % file system usage that will trigger a
warning after the backup is finished.
.br
Use dest_dir_usage_warning=0 to disable.
.br
Default: 80
.P
\fBdest_dir_windows\fR tells rsync_bu to use rsync options suitable for
writing to a Windows FAT or NTFS file system.
.br
Default: assume a sane file system.
.P
\fB--exclude-from\fR is an exclude file
as described on the rsync man page under --exclude-from
except that any FILE that does not contain a "/"
is relative to the bung configuration directory,
normally /etc/bung for root and ~/etc/bung for others.
.br
Default: no exclude file.
.P
\fBnocompression\fR
Do not use rsync's --compress option when the source or destination is remote.
.br
It is useful when the CPU(s) at either end are weak or normally heavily loaded,
especially when the network is fast and normally lighly loaded.
.P
\fBno-numeric-ids\fR
Do not use rsync's --numeric-ids option
.br
It is useful when using rsync_bu to sync files to a destination system
which has the same groups and users by name but different by number
and the files may be used on the destination system.
.br
bung's default is --numeric-ids because it works best when restoring files
from the destination system.
.P
\fBoptions\fR
sets the rsync options, verbatim.
.br
It is useful when rsync_bu's default rsync options are not suitable.
Individual options may not include spaces, tabs and newlines.
.P
\fBremote_host_timeout\fR
specifies the time rsync_bu waits
while testing the connection to the remote host
before failing.
.br
\fIduration\fR
is a floating point number with an optional suffix:
s for seconds (the default),
m for minutes,
h for hours,
d for days. 
.br
Default 10m
.P
\fBretention=\fI...\fR
.br
Specifies changed and deleted files retention.
.P
During backup, changed and deleted files are moved to a
\fIYYYY\fB/\fIMmm\fB/\fIhh:mm\fR subdirectory
of \fIDEST\fR/"_Changed and deleted files"
or as "_Changed and deleted files" has been changed by \fBbackup_dir=\fIDIR\fR.
\fBretention=\fR specifies how these subdirectories are removed.
.P
Default: 28 day retention.
.br
.RS
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]
.br
Specifies the number of days that these subdirectories are kept.
.P
\fBretention=0\fR[\fBdays\fR][,\fBnowarn\fR]
.br
Specifies no removal of changed and deleted files.
.P
If \fIDEST\fR/"_Changed and deleted files" exists
(or as "_Changed and deleted files" has been changed by \fBbackup_dir=\fIDIR\fR)
a warning will be generated.
The warning can be disabled by using \fBretention=0,nowarn\fR.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]
.RS
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR
.br
Specifies repeatedly removing the oldest changed and deleted file subdirectory until the file system usage is \fInumber\fR percent or less.
.P
When more than one backup is written to the same file system,
this can result in all the changed and deleted files subdirectories for this backup
being removed before the specified % file system usage is achieved
because of space used by another backup.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR
.br
Works like \fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR except the most recent
\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR are not removed.
.RE
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fBold_backups\fR 
.br
Specifies removing all but the most recent \fInumber\fR changed and deleted file subdirectories.
.RE
.P
\fBretry\fR
Specifies the number of times the rsync command is retried on timeout.
.br
Default: 2
.P
\fB--timeout\fR 
is the rsync I/O timeout as explained on the rsync man page
except rsync_bu defaults to --timeout=600.
.P
\fBverbose\fR is the number of --verbose options to run rsync with.
.br
Valid range: 0 to 3
.br
Default: 1
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
Example rsync_bu configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung/examples
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Michael Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5 and 8),
\fBrsync_bu\fR(8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung
