.ig
Copyright (C) 2023 Charles Michael Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na
.TH sysinfo 5 "27 Feb 2023" "Auroville" "Version 3.5.1"
.SH NAME
sysinfo_bu \- configuration for bung's system information generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBEmail for report\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBLog retention\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBMount\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBOrganisation name\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPre-hook\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBPost-hook\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBShutdown\fB\~=\~\fI... 
.HP
\fBSnapshot\fB\~=\~\fI...
.HP
\fBsysinfo\~=
\fR[\fBdest_dir=\fIDIR\fR]
\fR[\fBdest_dir_usage_warning=\fI%\fR]
\fR[\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]]|\fB0\fR[\fBdays\fR]]|\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]|\fInumber\fBold_backups]
.HP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the keywords specific to sysinfo_bu
.P
The \fBbung-common\fR (5) man page describes
the configuration file format
and the common keywords ellipsised in the \fBSYNOPSIS\fR above
.SH OPTIONS (sub-keywords)
.P
\fBdest_dir\fR
Destination directory for the system information files
.br
Default: /var/backup/sysinfo
.P
\fBdest_dir_usage_warning\fR is the % file system usage that will trigger a
warning after the backup is finished.
.br
Use dest_dir_usage_warning=0 to disable.
.br
Default: 80
.P
.P
\fBretention=\fI...\fR
.br
Specifies old backup files retention.
.P
Default: 28 day retention.
.br
.RS
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fR[\fBdays\fR]
.br
Specifies the number of days that these files are kept.
.P
\fBretention=0\fR[\fBdays\fR]
.br
Specifies no removal of old backup files.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR[\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR]
.RS
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR
.br
Specifies repeatedly removing the oldest backup file until the file system usage is \fInumber\fR percent or less.
.P
When more than one backup is written to the same file system,
this can result in all the old backup files
being removed before the specified % file system usage is achieved
because of space used by another backup.
.P
\fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR\fB,\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR
.br
Works like \fInumber\fBpercent_usage\fR except the most recent
\fInumber\fBmin_old_backups\fR old backup files are not removed.
.RE
.P
\fBretention=\fInumber\fBold_backups\fR 
.br
Specifies removing all but the most recent \fInumber\fR old backup files.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are described in bung-common (5).
.SH FILES
Default directories are described in bung-common (5).
.SH EXAMPLES
Example sysinfo_bu configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung/examples
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Michael Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbung-common\fR(5 and 8),
\fBsysinfo_bu\fR(8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/doc/bung
