.ig
Copyright (C) 2021 Charles Atkinson

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" No adjustment (ragged right)
.na\" No adjusting text
.nh\" No hyphenation
.TH template_file 5 "13 Apr 2022" "Auroville" "Version 3.2.5"
.SH NAME
bung \- templated_bu template file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB<variable name>\~=\~\fB<variable value>\fR
.br
\fBTimeout: \fB<duration>\fR
.br
\fBOK rc list: \fB<rc test list>\fR
.br
\fBWarning rc list: \fB<rc test list>\fR
.br
\fBError rc list: \fB<rc test list>\fR
.br
\fBOK regex: \fB<regular expression>\fR
.br
\fBWarning regex: \fB<regular expression>\fR
.br
\fBError regex: \fB<regular expression>\fR
.br
\fB<command>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page describes the template file format
for bung script templated_bu
.SH OPTIONS (file format)
Lines beginning with #, empty lines and lines containing only spaces and tabs are ignored.
.br
The remaining lines must have one of the following nine syntaxes.
.TP
Assignment
.RS
\fB<variable name>\~=\~\fB<variable value>\fR
.P
Optional; no default; may appear several times.
.P
Tokens are substituted by their values.
More in the "OPTIONS (tokens)" section below.
.P
\fB<variable name>\fR
.P
Valid names: _[a-zA-Z0-9_]+
(underscore folllowed by one or more ASCII alphanumerics)
.P
\fB<variable value>\fR is everything 
after any whitespace following the = 
and up to the end of the line.
.P
No quoting or escaping is supported.
.RE
.
.TP
Timeout
.RS
\fBTimeout: \fB<duration>\fR
.P
Optional.
Applies to the next command.
.P
Default: the Timeout specified or defaulted in
the templated_bu configuration file.
Documented in the templated_bu(5) man page.
.P
If you want a default to apply to all commands, set it in the
the templated_bu configuration file.
.P
\fB<duration>\fR specifies the time allowed for the command to run
before exiting with an error.
It is a floating point number with an optional suffix
as specified in the \fBtimeout\fR man page:
.br
\fBs\fR for seconds (default)
.br
\fBm\fR for minutes
.br
\fBh\fR for hours
.br
\fBd\fR for days
.RE
.
.TP
rc (return code) lists
.RS
\fBOK rc list: \fB<rc test list>\fR
.br
\fBWarning rc list: \fB<rc test list>\fR
.br
\fBError rc list: \fB<rc test list>\fR
.br
.P
Optional.
Applies to the next command.
.P
Default: when none of the "rc list" lines are used,
the command's return code is ignored.
.P
\fB<rc test list>\fR format:
.br
One or more of > < >= <= != == followed by an unsigned integer and
separated by commas.
.P
Example:
.br
Error rc list: >8,==2
.P
Effect:
.IP \(bu 4
If \fBError rc list\fR was used and
one of its rc list comparisons matches the command's return code,
an error message is generated.
.IP \(bu 4
Else if \fBWarning rc list\fR was used and
one of its rc list comparisons matches the command's return code,
a warning message is generated.
.IP \(bu 4
if \fBOK rc list\fR was used and
none of its rc list comparisons matches the command's return code:
.IP \(bu 8
Else if \fBError rc list\fR was used,
a warning message is generated.
.IP \(bu 8
Else
an error message is generated.
.RE
.
.TP
Output regular expressions
.RS
\fBOK regex: \fB<regular expression>>\fR
.br
\fBWarning regex: \fB<regular expression>\fR
.br
\fBError regex: \fB<regular expression>>\fR
.br
.P
Optional.
Applies to the next command.
.P
Default: when none of the regex lines are used,
the command's output is ignored.
.P
\fB<regular expression>\fR format:
Extended regular expression (ERE)
as documented in the section 7 regex man page.
.P
Example:
.br
OK regex: ^$
.P
Effect:
.IP \(bu 4
If \fBError regex\fR was used and
it matches the command's return code,
an error message is generated.
.IP \(bu 4
Else if \fBWarning regex\fR was used and
it matches the command's return code,
a warning message is generated.
.IP \(bu 4
if \fBOK regex\fR was used and
nit matches the command's return code:
.IP \(bu 8
Else if \fBError regex\fR was used,
a warning message is generated.
.IP \(bu 8
Else
an error message is generated.
.RE
.
.TP
Command
.RS
\fB<command>\fR
.P
Optional but nothing is done if there are no commands; may appear several times.
.P
Tokens are substituted by their values.
More in the "OPTIONS (tokens)" section below.
.P
No quoting or escaping is supported.
.RE
.
.TP
.RE
.SH OPTIONS (tokens)
.P
Token values are defined in templated_bu's configuration file 
except for tmp_dir (defined internally by templated_bu)
and any variables defined by assignments in the template file.
.P
Tokens are identified in the template file by %-quoted names,
for example %tmp_dir%.
.P
The tokens are:
.RS
\fBdest_dir\fB\fR
.P
If present, after running the commands in the template file, 
templated_bu will remove any files
in the <dest_dir> tree older than the
configured age.
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBdevice_type\fB\fR
.P
Can be used as a device type to allow a templete to support multiple device types,
for example by naming an expect script
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBgit_root\fB\fR
.P
If present, after running the commands in the template file, 
templated_bu will change to the \fBgit_root_dir\fB\fR directory 
and run git commands to add all files, commit and push.
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBhostname\fB\fR
.P
Can be used as an actual FQDN or an ssh host defined in ~/.ssh/config
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBidentity_file\fB\fR
.P
Can be used as an ssh private key file.
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBpassword\fB\fR
.P
Can be used as a password.
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBtemplate\fB\fR
.P
The name of the template file.
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBtftp_server\fB\fR and \fBtftp_root\fB\fR
.P
Can be used to name a TFTP server and directory.
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBtmp_dir\fB\fR
.P
A temporary directory created by templated_bu
and removed when templated_bu finalises.
.P
.RE
.RS
\fBusername\fB\fR
.P
Can be used as an ssh username.
.P
.RE
.RS
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables are not used in the template file
.SH FILES
Any git_root must have been set up as a working git repository
along with any ~/.ssh/config host stanza required for it to work.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example bung configuration files are
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc/examples
.P
templated_bu configuration file (the templated line is a single line):
.RS
.P
Organisation name = backup3.iciti.av
.br
templated = dest_dir=/home/nc/var/backup/mikrotik/non-git  git_root=/home/nc/var/backup/mikrotik/git   hostname=edge1.iciti.av  template=mikrotik.template
.P
.RE
.P
template file:
.RS
.P
# Template file for bung's templated_bu
.P
# For backing up Mikrotik devices
.P
# Set convenience variables
.br
_git_subdir = %git_root%/%hostname%
.br
_dest_subdir = %dest_dir%/%hostname%
.P
# Ensure required directories
.br
OK rc list: ==0
.br
/usr/lib/bung/mikrotik.template.helper -D %_git_subdir% -t %tmp_dir%
.br
OK rc list: ==0
.br
/usr/lib/bung/mikrotik.template.helper -D %_dest_subdir% -t %tmp_dir%
.P
# Generate export file on device
.br
Timeout: 60
.br
ssh %hostname% export file=%hostname%.exported
.P
# Copy to git (exported files) tree
.br
OK regex: ^$
.br
scp -p -q %hostname%:/%hostname%.exported.rsc %_git_subdir%
.P
# Remove from router
.br
OK regex: ^$
.br
ssh %hostname% file remove %hostname%.exported.rsc
.P
# Remove the time of generation timestamp, troublesome in git
.br
OK rc list: ==0
.br
/usr/lib/bung/mikrotik.template.helper -e %_git_subdir%/%hostname%.exported.rsc -t %tmp_dir%
.P
# Generate backup ("binary") file on device
.br
Timeout: 20
.br
ssh %hostname% system backup save dont-encrypt=yes name=%hostname%
.P
# Copy to non-git tree
.br
OK regex: ^$
.br
scp -p -q %hostname%:/%hostname%.backup %_dest_subdir%/%hostname%.backup
.P
# Remove from router
.br
OK regex: ^$
.br
ssh %hostname% file remove %hostname%.backup
.P
# Backup files
.br
OK rc list: ==0
.br
/usr/lib/bung/mikrotik.template.helper -b %dest_dir%/%hostname% -r %hostname% -t %tmp_dir%
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Charles Atkinson bung@charlesmatkinson.org
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBtemplated_bu\fR(5 and 8)
.br
The bung user guide,
normally installed in /usr/share/bung/doc/
